---
layout: post
title: 'Blog 3'
date: 2020-11-16 12:21:46 -0500
categories: DIGF_FALL_2020
---

This is about my personal progress through this course and a brief review about my contribution on pair team 1.

AR project
Our App ‘Pocket Plane’ was built upon ‘AR Foundation’ and ‘AR+GPS Location’ and we used ‘Easy QR code’ to give easy access to users. In this section I will explain what we used these plugin’s features for and what I learned from using these plugins. I think personally, I learned a lot about how to build Augmented Reality (AR), work with hardware GPS functionality, and build a functional QR scanner in Unity.

• AR foundation

The AR foundation plugin is for working with Augmented Reality platforms in a multi-platform way within Unity. It provides an interface for Unity developers, but it doesn’t implement any AR feature itself. We had to download the “ARCore XR” plugin (for Android) and the “ARKit X” plugin (for IOS) to work in the target devices. Ultimately, this AR foundation helped us to build the AR itself.

• AR+GPS Location
This plugin was exceptionally helpful to render an AR model in a specific location. We tried at first to build it in unity manually, but we realized that it was far more complicated then using this plugin. What we needed was longitude and latitude of the location and when the user allows the app to get location information through their device GPS it allows the app to show the 3D AR model in the specified location.

• Easy QR code
We decided to use the Unity Asset Package QR Scan to make easy for anybody to access and download our app.

• Research for 3D models
Ramsha and I had to find 3D model which can fit for our project.

• Meeting and Activity log
I tracked all the meetings and agenda of the meeting every week to check progress of our team.

• Review  
First problem we encountered was that our app couldn’t be run through WebGL, which meant we needed to make our app as a Native app. We should have made the choice between giving up on Unity AR or found another way to adopt Unity AR to web, but due to our limited time, we decided to make a native app.
Second - our team members all tried their best to have meetings together to discuss about the topics, but all three members lives in entirely different timeline and world. This led us to delay the decision and ended up passing the due date of submission or demo presentation.
Third - lack of technical experience. I think Unity wasn’t the problem; the problem was that we didn’t know how to adapt all technologies that we wanted to adapt and integrate them to work together. We wanted to build map system so allow user can set 3D monuments everywhere by themselves and connect with other users. Lack of experience dealing with multiuser and database became a huge problem tackle this issue.
